I've talked a bit about computed
properties in Watchers,
we're gonna have you go ahead and
play around with that.
So for your exercise, you will have put
a bunch of characters inside of your show.
So you probably have certain attributes
that you can put basically on those
characters, right?
Whether it's their age, height, whatever
you want, but then based on those,
add those attributes to your characters.
And then use a computer property to start
generating some sort of statistics.
So for example,
mine is Avatar Last Airbender.
I could be like, okay,
two of them are waterbenders,
three of them are earthbenders, and
then I can run computations on
the percentage that might be.
So just have a play around with that,
it's one of those things where we'll
be reusing a lot as we go forward.
And so, don't worry, you'll get plenty
of opportunity to play around with that.
Welcome back everyone.
I hope that you found that exercise with
the computer properties kinda fun to play
around with.
But again, you'll get plenty of
opportunity to practice that cuz I think
it's one of the features we need to use
more of and see more of in the ecosystem.
So definitely we'll be pushing that.
But during the exercise there was a great
question regarding the differences between
computed and watch.
Earlier in the example I showed,
you notice that the reason why I mentioned
that the watch is not a great
sort of technique in this
particular case is because you're
dealing with the reactive data.
In other words, you're basically doing a
computation that you're manually tracking.
This is not to say that watch as
a technique is invalid, however.
What that really means is that
when it comes to computing data,
combining those things like we see up
here with optimized increment amount.
Where you have multiple dependencies,
computed will do a lot of work for
you right out of the gate.
And so that's when you wanna do that,
anytime you're modifying
something returning it, and
you wanna be like, I wanna display
something slightly different.
And so actually the question earlier
regarding the strings and combining them,
that would be an example where the
character list for example, could be like,
let's say, comma separated.
This is a bad name.
But you could do something like
this .characterList.split,
you could do your calculation in here,
and then just return that in the render
thing, and that would already look good.
So I will show that later
when we're doing it.
But to the main plan I wanna make,
though, is that watch is really good for
when you wanna trigger a side
effect on your code base.
So in other words, you can imagine, if
you might wanna have a specific API call
when your reactive data
has set a certain state.
That would be a great example of when
computed wouldn't make any sense at all,
because computed is about managing data.
Managing, triggering actions,
that kind of stuff, watch is perfect for
that kind of stuff.
Just know that's the main paradigm
difference between the two when it
comes to using them.
Okay, so
let's take a look at this example.
So I'm gonna go my index
to do the solution together
Okay, so here, okay,
you got my characters here, and
this time let's add a property,
let's call there element.
And so I know that Aang is Air,
Earth, Water, and Fire.
And we won't get into SQL stuff for anyone
who isn't Avatar:The Last Airbender fan.
So we have Fire, we won't worry
about stuff like lightning and
iron metal bending for now, and Water.
Okay, so here we have all of
our stuff here, and then for
the sake of consistency, let's just
make sure we go and add an element here.
That's an empty array.
Great, okay, so from here we could do
basically some statistic, shall we?
So for now, let's go ahead and actually
add a h2 here for just characters.
So this is consistent, there you go.
Characters up top favorite characters,
new character.
All right, and then actually just like I
did before, I'm gonna go the most recent
thing so that it's right at the top,
which is easier for people to see.
Let's talk about statistics.
And so for something like statistics,
we wanna figure out, so
for example,
let's see how many Earthbenders we have.
And then we have how many Airbenders?
We have Waterbenders, and
then we have Firebenders.
Okay, a couple of ways to do this, but
we'll start with the simple approach
first, which is that let's say we
wanna track the Earthbenders, right?
That was one of the ones I'd mentioned.
So let me hide data real quick.
So we're gonna do with a computed
property cuz we're basically just
computing data off of
what we already have.
So we can do is we say earthBenders,
let's say earthBenderlist like that, and
so return this .characterList, and we're
gonna filter it based on every character.
And basically, we wanna know if,
actually let me do this the long way.
If character.element, and
then I realized there are more than ones
that no use that name right,
but it's fine.
.element dot I think contained
to do the trick Earth.
And then we are just going to,
actually, we'll do this one more.
Let's see, return the filter.
Yeah, yap, okay,
we can do it this way if it's
contains element Earth,
and then return true.
And then we're returning
the length of this thing.
So this is a little bit convoluted.
I wanna go ahead and
refactor this real quick.
So we can basically say that this
contains to the earthBenders,
is what this filter does,
it goes through all the characters,
checks if they have it, and
if they have it, then it returns true.
So the easier way to actually write
this is to return since the logic is not
complicated.
We can actually just do it like this.
One more.
There you go.
So there we go and then,
once we have earthBenders we can return
earthBenders, actually we can
just return the list itself.
I'm actually overthinking this.
Okay, here we go.
So to show that this actually does work,
I'm gonna go ahead and
render out the earthBenders first.
So earthBenderList, right.
If we refresh, something broke,
contains, I missed that.
Is contains, okay, that's fine.
Contains always kind of throws me off.
Greater than -1 that should be.
There we go much better.
Okay, so we'll see here now
is that it's gone ahead and
taken our list of characters and
it's refined it down to the array with
only the characters that
have like the Earth element.
And so again, this is useful because
then we could do is we can say,
okay, well then in this case we
have .length, and there we go.
We have the number of earthBenders.
And so you could basically duplicate
this down as far as doing each one.
So I think though, for the sake of
making this a programmatic exercise,
we can just say see benderStatistics.
And rather than break it
up each time we'll have,
we know the list of elements we want.
So we have our elements
which is gonna be Air,
Earth, Fire, and Water.
And so what we can do is then
actually just, we're gonna return
an object where each of these
are gonna contain the updated value.
That way it's easier to display
water and fire, okay.
Finally, we will loop through
every single element so,
this.characterlist.forEach, for
every character, and
then elements.forEach(element).
If character.element.index of,
the naming on this is
gonna be a little wonky.
And it's greater than -1.
Then we will say, const
statistics equals this thing.
So, actually, you know what?
I think I can do this one better.
We can say, statistics
(element) +=1.
Yes, so then we just need to make sure
that is good, just like that.
And then we return statistics.
Okay, that should do the trick.
I think, no wait, if this,
we're missing a parenthesis.
Okay, that should do it.
>> Index of is so off.
>> Index of, you're totally right,
indexof element that's what was off,
good call, thank you.
Okay, now let's give this a shot.
So we just render out the statistics now,
what I call benderStatistics
then we could say,
ForEach is not liking it,
cuz I can't spell, there we go.
So we can see here there's one of each,
and
the reason you get 2 here is because for
those that don't know,
Aang has all the different elements,
so that's how we get that.
And you can see we have
that computed property.
I see there's a question.
>> Should we use reduce here and pass
statistics object as a default parameter?
>> [LAUGH] Reduce is certainly an option.
I just went with what was kind of easier
to do since I know reduce can be kind of
confusing sometimes for
those who don't use it a lot.
But reduce would be a great option in this
point where we could reduce the array and
get the numbers that we want.
And for those who haven't used the reduce
a lot in JavaScript, reduce it's
pretty magical that you can do basically
everything that you would want it to do.
But in that regard, the API can get
a little bit complex sometimes.
So that's why is not my go to
when teaching these things.
So definitely a number of ways to do this.
To be clear, this was just like
a quick code together of how you
could cobble together the statistics.
But I'm sure there are many ways
we could optimize for this.
But I just wanted to show that here.
Now that we actually have everything,
we can show that we can li and
v-for through this bender list, so
I'll say stat in benderStatistics.
And you'll see something interesting,
though, is that if we just do this, just
bender or stat, you'll notice here that
it's only rendering out the right side.
And that's because, well, guess what?
We're in a for loop for
an object, and that's JavaScript.
So that means that if we
want the key as well,
we need to actually just open
it up cuz its value then key.
So I would say type is probably
what I would name that.
And then that way we can do type,
colon, space, refresh, there we go.
We have all our elements, and
it's being computed as you would expect.
And so as you can imagine, you can even
extend on this to be like percentages and
all that fun stuff, and you just keep
building on your computer properties.
And so what's nice about that because
computed properties can be composed,
it allows you to approach it in basically
kind of like a functional programming way.
You code the very small chunk
that does this one computation,
then depend on other chain on that.
And then that way you have actually a very
clean sort of setup when it comes to
managing those individual calculations.
So, that said, does anyone have any
questions regarding what they just saw?